**Hi! I'm Sam Schumacher.** I'm studying computer science with a minor in mathematics at Northeastern University, and I'm passionate about creating software—especially when that software is designed for positive impact. I completed my first software engineering co-op at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard from July to December 2024, and I'm currently looking for a co-op position for July to December 2025. Please reach out to me via my [LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam-schu/)!

I'm currently active as a developer for Code4Community (C4C), a Northeastern organization that creates software needed by nonprofits so that they can focus their time and money on serving their communities. At C4C, I'm working alongside other developers to create a web portal to help the nonprofit Securing Safe Food and 40+ partner food pantries and manufacturers track requests for, donations of, and shipments of allergen-free food.

On my profile, you'll find a number of personal, professional, and academic projects I've worked on. I've highlighted a few projects and repositories below; for a more in-depth description of a project, please see that project's README.

- [**Terra UI (Broad Institute):**](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/terra-ui/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Asam-schu+is%3Amerged) This is the frontend repository for Terra, a biomedical data analysis platform I worked on during my co-op at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. As one of my primary projects, I led the migration of one of the 3 major sections of a legacy ClojureScript frontend to the TypeScript- and React-based Terra UI, now used by 65K researchers. I refactored existing code for readability and reusability, wrote new reusable components, and played an important role in deciding which features would be included in the new Terra Workflow Repository. The PRs that I completed and merged in the Terra UI repository are accessible from the link above.
- [**StudyTime (backend):**](https://github.com/sam-schu/studytime-backend) This is the backend repository for an Android application I am working on that will enable users to find and meet up with friends who are studying nearby. The backend REST API is being developed in Kotlin with Ktor, Ktorm, and PostgreSQL, and the app's UI will use Jetpack Compose (which I learned and practiced in my Mobile Application Development course in spring 2024). I am currently working on planning and building out an initial backend for this project.
- [**COVID-19 Compartmental Epidemic Model:**](https://github.com/sam-schu/covid-19-compartmental-model) This Python project uses a simplified stochastic model to simulate the spread of COVID-19 through a population of agents. Symptomatic and asymptomatic cases, stages of infection (corresponding to compartments in the model), mask-wearing, self-isolation, immunity, and death are implemented. The population size, simulated time period, proportion of agents wearing masks, and proportion of agents willing to self-isolate are customizable, and an optional simulation view implemented using the Pygame library is provided. This project is structured using a modified version of the model-view-controller (MVC) architecture.
- [**Abagio:**](https://github.com/sam-schu/abagio) This project, written in Python using the Pygame library, is a digital recreation (based on an earlier project by me) of the board game Abagio. The game is playable by 2 players using a GUI that includes animated dice, responsive instructions, variable framerate, smooth movement of game pieces (frogs), and rules for frog stacking and render priority. End-game conditions, passing, and the Top Frog rule are not currently implemented.
- [**PBI Pricing Estimator:**](https://github.com/sam-schu/pbi-pricing-estimator) This project, developed using Java during an internship for Pressure BioSciences, Inc., enables the company to estimate the production cost and selling price of future products. Employees can enter values for a number of factors related to the production, shipping, and sale of the product into the application's GUI, and the program will validate the input values and calculate subtotal and total costs in real time as each input is updated. The current state of the program can be saved to a CSV file, and the validation settings for each input can also be customized and saved. *I do not have permission to share the code for this project, but a detailed description of the project with screenshots is provided in the README file.*
- **Reversi:** This is an implementation of the game Reversi played on a hexagonal board, developed with a partner using Java Swing for my Object-Oriented Design (CS3500) course in fall 2023. The game is played by two players, and each player has a separate window for selecting their moves. Each window always shows the up-to-date state of the game, as well as whether it is the corresponding player's turn, and both invalid move detection and win detection are implemented. Any combination of human and AI players can be used; 3 unique AI players were implemented within a strategy framework we created that allows AI strategies to be easily combined in different ways. The project is structured using the model-view-controller (MVC) architecture and makes extensive use of multiple design patterns that we learned during the course, including the strategy pattern and the observer pattern. *As per the request of the course staff, the repository for this project will remain private unless access is requested. Please reach out to me via my [LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam-schu/) if you would like to view the code for this project!*
